# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 14 June 2021, 14:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

See separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/TGSoftware_Attendance_2021.md)

The following new member was welcomed.

- **Richard Barry** from Amazon

## Summary of actions

**Jeremy Bennett** to remove Duncan Bees from PlatformIO project proposal updates as project concept is by Ivan Kravets.

**Duncan Bees** and **Yunhai Shang** to upload presentation to mattermost and github for people to offer edits and opinions. Including added slides depicting differences between the HAL and SDK projects.

**Rick O'Connor** to get HW & SW TG's together to decide what the SDK will include.

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

**Ivan Kravets** and **Duncan Bees** to finalize the concept proposal for PlatformIO support and submit to the TWG meeting on 24 May 2021.

- Deferred to TWG meeting on 28 June 2021, see agenda item [PlatformIO project proposal](#platformio-project-proposal-5-minutes-allocated)

**Yunhai Shang** and his team to produce a comparative analysis of HAL
solutions for the meeting on 14 June 2021.

- See agenda item [Hardware abstraction layer](#hardware-abstraction-layer-15-minutes-allocated)

**Yunhai Shang** to propose a time for a demonstration of T-Head CSI for all interested parties.

- Action item open.

**Duncan Bees** to approach each project lead to organize advancing the project to the next process gate.

- Duncan Bees to report on progress.

**Jeremy Bennett** to add CORE-V MCU developer board SDK to the agenda of the next meeting for fuller discussion.

- Complete, see agenda item [Requirements for the CORE-V MCU developer board SDK](#requirements-for-the-core-v-mcu-developer-board-sdk-15-minutes-allocated)

**All** to consider whether they can lead the project to create the CORE-V MCU developer board SDK.

- Action item open.

## Report back from TWG

Verilator modelling project moved forward - plan approved.

## Reports from current projects

Active projects under the SW TG have provided a written report in advance.

### CORE-V IDE

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/ide/2021/monthly-report-2021-06-11.md) by Alexander Fedorov in the repository.

Minor improvements made in the past month.

### CORE-V GNU Tools

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/gnu-tools/2021) by Jessica in the repository (Awaiting PR merge on 15-jun-2021).

No substantial improvement since last meeting, but started rebasing CORE-V binutils.  Editting blog post on PULP simulator.  Also working on integrating GCC regression test suite with this simulator.

### CORE-V FreeRTOS

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/freertos/2021) by Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova in the repository (Awaiting PR merge on 15-jun-2021).

Hardware changes going on the last few weeks. Recently tested new bitstream with the latest changes. Waiting for more documentation in the MCU repo so can test FreeRTOS and adjust as required

### CORE-V Clang/LLVM

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/clang-llvm/2021/monthly-report-2021-06-14.md) by Zbigniew Chamski and Philipp Krones in the repository.

CV32E40P: Merged pull requests for HWLoop generation - not tested on HW. Work slowing down as no one currently owns project.

CVA6: Checking if LLVM is suitable for verification. Two issue identified, one with floating point tests and potential issue with tests not being supported by LLVM linker. These two issues will be looked into this month.

### CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project)

Written report only, joint with HW TG, since Jeremy Bennett is on vacation.

## PlatformIO project proposal

No updates as Ivan has been on vacation. Project concept ready to be presented at TWG.

**Action:** Jeremy Bennett to remove Duncan Bees from PlatformIO project proposal updates as project concept is by Ivan Kravets.

## Hardware abstraction layer

A set of proposed requirements for HAL were discussed. These requirements will be reviewed and edited on 21st June 2021. The goal is to present a project concept proposal to the TWG on 28 June 2021.

**Action** Duncan Bees and Yunhai Shang to upload presentation to mattermost and github for people to offer edits and opinions. Including added slides depicting differences between the HAL and SDK projects.

A follow-up meeting will take place at 14:00 UTC on Monday 21 June to approve the project concept proposal.

## Requirements for the CORE-V MCU developer board SDK

A question brought forward: As we build an MCU and populate that MCU on a board, what does the SDK include?

**Action** Rick O'Connor to get HW & SW TG's together to decide what the SDK will include.

## Linux integration

CV32A6 is now supporting Linux.

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 21 Jun 2021 (extra 45 minute meeting for HAL consideration)
- 12 Jul 2021
- 09 Aug 2021
- 13 Sep 2021
- 11 Oct 2021
- 08 Nov 2021
- 13 Dec 2021

Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
